>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28th, WITH A
POSSIBLE FEDERAL GOVERNMEN
SHUTDOWN LOOMING, THE LATEST
FROM CONGRESS.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
FROM THE WEST BANK, COULD THIS
PLANNED CITY LEAD TO ECONOMI
DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE?
>> IT IS NOT ABOUT THROWING
AND TERRORISM, WE ARE EDUCATED
AND HAVE A FUTURE AND AIM FO
INDEPENDENT STATE.
>>> AND OUR NEW OBSESSION WITH
KEEPING TRACK OF OURSELVES
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
>> PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
>>> FROM NEW YORK, THIS IS PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
>>> EVENING, THANKS FOR JOININ
US
BECAUSE OF WNET'S AMERICAN
GRADUATE INITIATIVE, WE AR
COMING TO YOU TONIGHT FROM A
DIFFERENT STUDIO IN NEW YORK
CITY
WE BEGIN WITH THE LATEST FRO
CONGRESS WHICH NOW HAS LITTL
MORE THAN 48 HOURS TO REACH SOME
SORT OF BARGAIN, OTHERWISE PARTS
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT COUL
SHUT DOWN AS EARLY AS TUESDA
MORNING.
YESTERDAY AS YOU KNOW, THE
DEMOCRAT CONTROLLED SENATE
APPROVED A SPENDING PLAN THA
RESTORED FUNDING FOR OBAMA CARE.
TODAY THE REPUBLICAN CONTROLLE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES MET T
CONSIDER ITS OPTIONS
FOR THE LATEST, WE ARE JOINED BY
THE WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT FOR
THE TAKE AWAY FROM PUBLIC RADI
INTERNATIONAL.
TODD, WHAT HAPPENED IN THE HOUSE
TODAY?
>> Reporter: WHAT HAPPENED THI
MORNING, HOUSE REPUBLICANS WEN
INTO CLOSED CONFERENCE, NO
DEMOCRATS ALLOWED, TO DISCUS
THE NEXT MOVE.
THE NEXT MOVE IS JUS
REPUBLICANS.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET ANY
DEMOCRATIC VOTES FOR IT.
HERE IS WHAT THEY DECIDED, WHA
IS ON THE FLOOR.
A CONTINUING RESOLUTION, A
SPENDING BILL THAT WOULD FUN
THE GOVERNMENT THROUGH DECEMBE
15, THAT'S LONGER THAN THE
SENATE DEMOCRATS HAD, THEY HAD
NOVEMBER 15.
THEN TWO OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT.
ONE, A ONE YEAR DELAY OF OBAMA
CARE
THAT'S THEIR ANSWER TO HARRY
REID AND SENATE DEMOCRAT
STRIPPING THAT DEFUND EFFORT W
HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT.
THE SECOND AMENDMENT IS A REPEAL
OF A MEDICAL DEVICE TAX THAT
HELPED TO FUND OBAMA CARE.
IT SOUNDS LIKE A SMALL ISSUE
WHY ARE REPUBLICANS PUTTING THAT
IN THERE
BECAUSE SENATE DEMOCRATS VOTED
TO REPEAL THAT TAX, DON'T LIKE
IT, THEY'RE TRYING TO PU
POLITICAL PRESSURE ON DEMOCRAT
NOT TO FLIP FLOP ON THE LITTLE
MEDICAL DEVICE TAX
IF THEY FLIP FLOP, HARRY REI
HAS PROCEDURAL PROBLEMS.
THEY'RE TRYING TO PUT ON
POLITICAL PRESSURE
THEY'LL DO ONE MORE THING, PAS
A COMPANION BILL TO FUND THE
PENTAGON AND TROOPS IN THE EVENT
OF SHUTDOWN SO TROOPS AREN'T
LEFT WITHOUT PAY
>> WE HEARD FROM SENATOR HARRY
REID SAY HE IS NOT DEALING WIT
ANY PIECE OF LEGISLATION THA
DOES ANYTHING TO OBAMA CARE.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING FROM SENATE
STAFFERS
>> Reporter: HE SAID THAT.
THEY'RE SAYING THE SAME THING.
PROCEDURALLY IT IS PRETT
INTERESTING, WE THINK WE KNO
WHERE THIS IS PROBABLY HEADE
BASED ON THE ARCANE PROCEDUR
BAKED INTO THIS.
THE WAY THIS IS STRUCTURED
HARRY REID WILL HAVE A PRETT
EASY TIME KILLING THE TW
AMENDMENTS THAT I JUST
DESCRIBED, THE SENATE WHICH IS
LIKELY NOW TO MAYBE COME BAC
SUNDAY WE'RE HEARING INSTEAD O
THE ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED MONDAY.
HARRY REID WOULD ONLY NEED 5
VOTES TO KILL THE OBAMA CARE
DELAY THAT HOUSE REPUBLICANS
WANT TO TRY AGAIN ON
HE WOULDN'T NEED THE MAGICAL 6
VOTES ORDEAL WITH TED CRUZ O
ANYTHING LIKE THAT
ON THE MEDICAL DEVICE TAX, SAM
GOES
HE ONLY NEEDS 51 VOTES
THE ONLY QUESTION IS WOULD H
PREVENT ENOUGH SENATE DEMOCRAT
FROM FLIP FLOPPING
THEY SAY THEY'RE NOT VOTING FO
THIS REPEAL IN THIS CONTEX
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT GIVING THI
POWER TO REPUBLICANS
WHAT DOES THIS ALL MEAN?
IF HARRY REID HOLDS THE LINE O
THAT DEVICE TAX, WHAT IT MEANS
IS JOHN BOEHNER IS GOING TO BE
LEFT HOLDING THE BAG ON A CLEA
SPENDING BILL, THE THING THE
SAID THEY DIDN'T WANT, FUNDING
THE GOVERNMENT THROUGH DECEMBE
15th OR MORE LIKELY NOVEMBER
15th
AND THEN HE IS GOING TO HAVE T
DECIDE
DOES HE KILL IT, DOES HE GO TO
NANCY PELOSI AND STENY HOYER AND
UNDERSTAND HE HAS TO PASS IT
WITH DEMOCRATIC VOTES IN ORDER
TO KEEP THE GOVERNMENT OPERATING
OR DOES HE TRY SOMETHING ELSE,
MAYBE A ONE WEEK PUNT, ANOTHER
ONE WEEK SPENDING BILL TO KEEP
THE LIGHTS ON WHILE THEY
NEGOTIATE MORE
>> ALL RIGHT
THANKS SO MUCH, TODD
>> Reporter: PLEASURE.
>>> FROM ARIZONA, A REPORT
RELEASED TODAY CITES POO
COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN
FIREFIGHTERS AND UNPREDICTABLE
WEATHER CONDITIONS FOR THE
DEATHS OF 19 MEN FIGHTING
WILDFIRE NORTHWEST OF PHOENI
THIS SUMMER.
THAT FROM A SPECIAL TASKFORC
THAT EXAMINED THE TRAGEDY.
IT WAS THE WORST LOSS OF LIF
AMONG FIREFIGHTERS BATTLING
WILDFIRE IN 80 YEARS
MOST OF THE VICTIMS WERE I
THEIR 20s.
>>> TURNING OVERSEAS NOW
NEW RED CROSS VIDEO SHOWS JUST
HOW VIOLENT THE AL SHABAAB
ATTACK IN KENYA WAS.
HUNDREDS WERE RESCUED, AT LEAS
67 WERE KILLED AFTER MILITANTS
STORMED THE WESTGATE SHOPPIN
MALL
MORE THAN 60 OTHERS ARE BELIEVED
MISSING.
THEY BELIEVE THE MILITANTS
RENTED A STORE IN THE MALL PRIOR
TO THE ATTACK, GAVE THEM ACCES
TO SERVICE ELEVATORS ALLOWIN
THEM TO STOCKPILE AMMUNITION
>>> ROWHANI RETURNED HOME AFTE
HIS PHONE CALL WITH PRESIDEN
OBAMA.
THE HIGHEST LEVEL CONTAC
IRAN IN NEARLY 30 YEARS.
A SMALLER GROUP OF PROTESTER
CARRYING SIGNS DECLARED DOWN
WITH AMERICA ALSO TURNED OUT
A FEW OF THEM THREW EGGS AND
SHOES AT THE PRESIDENT'S CAR
ROWHANI SAID THE 15 MINUTE
CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE TWO
LEADERS FOCUSED ON THE DISPUTE
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.